If you turned the lights off to go to bed,
and a shadowy figure appeared, what would
you do?
In this How to Beat video, we’ll follow
a haunted family, see if we can make better
decisions, and ultimately attempt to beat
the SHADOW WITCH in, LIGHTS OUT.
If you think you have a better way to beat
it, let me know in the comments!
If you like these how to beat videos, consider
subscribing.
We start out by following Paul, the manager
of a textile shop.
I don’t know about y'all, but I wouldn’t
have mannequins placed around my office like
that.
Especially if I worked at night by myself.
Bare minimum everytime you walk into your
office you have to double check that it isn’t
a friend standing still trying to prank you.
At least put them in front of your desk.
The best case scenario is that the mannequin
is a highly attractive cursed peasant girl
that comes to life and falls in love with
you.
Paul’s about to find out what the worst
case scenario is.
He tells his employee to finish up the rounds
and head out for the night.
Why is the lighting so poor in this building,
and how the heck can you do inventory in near
complete darkness.
Oh great, not only does the poor lighting
make it impossible to do the job, but he also
has them hooked up to a motion sensor, so
if you stand still and actually try to do
your job the lights shut off.
I don’t think this business has a bright
future.
She handwaves the lights back on, and clothes
next to her rattle.
I would just check mark everything on the
list and head out.
If the manager got mad that anything was wrong,
I’d just blame it on the poor lighting.
Maybe try turning it off and on one more time.
Esther tries to tell her manager that something
was in the backroom, but he’s too preoccupied
talking to a psychiatrist about his wife’s
declining mental condition.
After blowing off his disturbed employee’s
warnings, he finishes up his work and heads
home.
Sure, he initially dismissed his employee,
but hearing a strange noise coupled with his
employee saying something was back there should
trigger a little red flag to pop up in his
brain, or dare I say, a lightbulb.
Look, it’s either a rat, in which case you
won’t be able to catch it.
It’s just the air currents causing something
to make noise, in which case there’s nothing
to worry about.
It’s a robber or mugger, in which case you're
screwed because they have the element of surprise
and you don’t have any weapons.
Or it’s a supernatural entity in which case
you couldn’t fight it even if you did have
a weapon.
There is no benefit to checking this noise
out right now.
It’s the evil jelly bean trail, with something
baiting you into its grasp.
Hell, most people would think nothing of a
noise like that and just walk out, especially
if you’re so preoccupied with your family.
Or they’d do the opposite of checking it
out and leave as quickly as possible.
Oh man, that was optimistic.
Bet you wish you didn’t cheap out on motion
sensor lighting now.
Paul sees that the ghost is stopped by the
light, and considering the lights can go out
at any time, he makes a break for it.
When he passes through the darkness between
lights, the ghost lashes his legs.
Well, he couldn’t have realized that this
thing is impossibly fast either, still, running
was his best and only shot.
He makes it back to his office, locks the
door and turns the lights on.
Seems like he’s safe for now.
Or not, as apparently this entity has control
over the electricity.
That’s not really fair, but okay.
Paul didn’t stand a chance, this thing is
like a ninja assassin.
Meanwhile, Paul’s stepdaughter, Rebecca,
and her boyfriend, Bret, are in disagreement
over Bret’s desire to keep his socks at
her apartment.
As fascinating as that storyline is, we cut
over to Rebecca’s brother, Martin.
Martin finds his mom talking to someone else
in her room.
Earlier in the movie he FaceTimed his dad,
Paul, complaining that his mom was talking
to herself.
I think there should be a distinction made
between talking to yourself, which is actually
good for you to an extent, and talking to
an imaginary friend, which is called Schizophrenia.
The mom, Sophie, is exhibiting the latter.
Okay, time to go sleep over at your friends
house.
Martin goes back to bed and turns around to
see the ghost's creepy fingers.
After seeing that you’re going to sit in
your bed for the next 8 hours.
Nope.
I don’t know how the kid survived the night.
I would have opened the window, aimed for
the bushes, and figured out a different living
situation.
The next day the school calls child services
on Martin because he's been passing out in
class everyday for the past week.
A symptom of a developing problem with Martin’s
dad being recently murdered, and his mom being
diagnosed with depressions and schizophrenia.
Yah, I can see how it’d be hard to pay attention
in social studies if that was the case.
The fact that this has been going on for at
least a week now and Martin hasn’t ran away
yet is crazy.
They call his rebel half-sister to see how
she can help.
Surprise surprise, sk8r girl just wants to
take him back to the psycho mom.
Do they not have an aunt, uncle, cousin, anyone
else?
Seems like keeping a kid in a home with a
manic and depressed mom would be very damaging
and unhealthy.
Seems like a chill dude, i’m sure he’ll
die horrifically soon enough.
When they show up at Martin's home, he tells
Rebecca that someone named Diana is living
with them.
There's some spooky music and her eyes light
up, Rebecca obviously knows who Diana is too.
The kid packs his bag, but wait, he hears
a strange noise in the room next door and
is somehow compelled to go check it out, as
if he doesn’t know what it is already.
I wonder how many more times people are going
to, check it out, I bet a lot.
The kid moves in with the sis for a few days
to get his bearings.
They’re going to have to figure this situation
out one way or another, but for now he needs
to get some sleep so he can think clearly.
He makes sure to pack his flashlight just
in case.
It should be clear that Diana can short out
the lights somehow, a flashlight should be
more reliable, but I wouldn’t risk only
having that.
The flashlight also only produces a beam of
light, which is effective and better than
nothing, but you really need something that
floods light in every direction.
You also need to watch your back, shining
a beam of light in front of you ain't gonna
stop Diana from ripping your spine out from
behind you.
I think the most tactically sound option is
light armor, like armor made of light.
AKA.
Wrap christmas tree lights around you and
plug into a handheld battery.
Your move, Diana.
I'd also light enough candles in my room to
look like a prayer ceremony.
And not just some off-brand, found in your
mom's kitchen cupboard candles.
I’m talking survival, smokeless, wind-proof
candles that won’t get blown out if someone
opens the door too fast.
They go to sleep for the night, and nobody
lights a freaking candle.
You both know about Diana, you both know that
it comes in the darkness.
Why aren’t you taking any precautions?
Diana takes advantage of their ineptitude,
and starts scratching the floorboard?
She easily could have killed them before they
even woke up.
I guess you gotta season the prey with fear.
I think you made mommy's ghost friend mad.
Rebecca defeats Diana with the flip of a light
switch, and finds Martin hiding in the bathtub
with his flashlight on.
Initially I didn’t understand why he chose
the bathtub, but it kind of makes sense.
This thing can get you wherever it’s dark.
That includes under the bed, where she could
grab your feet once you stepped down.
Maybe back in his mom’s house earlier in
the movie he experienced her creeping under
his bed at night.
They survive the night, not from their intelligence
or wits, but because Diana doesn’t seem
to want to kill them, or she just sucks at
it.
Maybe she’s trying to scare Martin and Rebecca
away to keep Sophie to herself, but why attack
them at the apartment if that was the case,
you already accomplished your goal.
The child services lady shows up and gives
her a breakdown of why Rebecca can’t house
Martin, and that he needs to go back to his
mother according to the law.
Martin could continuously run away, but the
Police and courts will get involved, and Martin
and Rebecca could find themselves in detainment
without the means to defend themselves.
Much like the kid in Polaroid.
Didn’t end well for him.
Rebecca and Martin both know the danger they
are in, and need to stay together and watch
each other’s backs.
While Martin hasn’t been harmed in the past
weeks of Diana haunting him, he’s obviously
in danger.
Rebecca is also in danger herself, so it doesn’t
make sense to stay at her apartment alone.
Running isn’t an option anymore, it’s
clear Diana wants to do harm.
I’d suggest that Rebecca moves back in at
home to help Martin, set up proper defenses,
and sort this out.
The mom nor the Police will have a problem
with it.
Rebecca has a flashback to when she was little,
coloring a stick figure fam picture, and when
she was first confronted by Diana, who crossed
the dad out and drew herself in.
Apparently it just now dawns on her that Diana
is a real entity that is somehow connected
with the mom’s behavior.
She heads back home to confront her mom about
Diana.
I’m completely onboard with this, but can
you at least stop by a store and pick up some
flashlights and lighting equipment.
Like in I Am Legend, you gotta get those Pitch
Black light tube backpacks.
It’d also be a good idea to either clue
Bret in on the situation or at least keep
him by your side so you can guide him around
safely.
How many times are people going to be baited
into obvious traps like this.
Rebecca finds a picture of Sophie and Diana.
Diana is her mom's friend who was real, and
had Xeroderma Pigmentosum, a horrific condition
in which you’re highly susceptible to UV
light and you pretty much can’t go outside
without a full protective suit.
Now that I think of it, that’s kind of what
the I Am Legend Darkseekers had.
She finds more medical records and recordings
of Diana’s condition and therapy, which
are kept in this house for some reason?
Isn’t that against confidentiality.
Diana was a Heliotherapy patient at the psychiatric
ward Sophie was in.
Sophie got better, but Diana’s condition
worsened and she became aggressive and unstable.
To combat her increasing sensitivity to light,
the doctors strapped her into a chair and
blasted her with multiple 1200 Watt UV lights.
Surprisingly, instead of healing her, it turned
her into a nuke shadow.
In real life, there are no cures for this
condition, just some drugs that may help.
But absolutely no form of heliotherapy would
ever be used experimentally for Xeroderma
pigmentosum.
That’s like standing in front of a firing
squad in an attempt to develop an immunity
to bullets.
Or trying to callus your hands with a belt
sander.
If you were even going to attempt this, you’d
start with extremely low doses to see how
the body reacts before going nuclear with
the 1200 watt UV lights.
Wait, so Diana made a noise that baited her
into finding this information, that seems
counterproductive..
After reviewing the medical records, she has
a kick of nostalgia and visits her childhood
room.
I’d be cognizant of where your sources of
light are and how they could fail.
The only source of light right now is that
door, if Diana can somehow close it Rebecca
is screwed.
Yep.
Seems that Diana is just trying to scare them
away from the mom.
That’s probably why their dad, Paul, died.
He was trying to get Sophie better.
Wait, why did Diana attack Esther, what did
she do to deserve that.
Bret saves the day and they take the evidence
back to her apartment.
Martin and his mom return home, and she has
a great idea.
A fun popcorn night with just the 3 of them.
Ooh.
When Martin mentions that he wants it to be
just the two of them, Sophie looks visibly
scared.
If I didn’t know any better, I’d say Diana
is holding Sophie hostage, much like MaRina
and Laura.
So far it seems that throughout Rebecca’s
and Martin’s childhood, Diana has appeared
and disappeared in correlation with the moms
mental state.
What he’s trying to say is, go confront
your psycho ghost friend that’s trying to
kill me.
Can I also just say, I hate that cliche face
your fear nonsense.
Fear isn’t inherently irrational.
It’s an emotional response to a perceived
threat.
If the perceived threat isn’t real, then
yah face it and get over it.
If the threat is real, like Diana, then just
‘facing it’ can get you killed.
If you fear certain parts of town at night
because of the high chance you’re going
to get mugged, facing those fears is freaking
stupid and will get you mugged.
This kid was acting all tough about facing
fears, then when the lights get turned off
he starts crying like a bitch.
Since Diana is a real threat, facing it turned
out about how you’d expect.
Seems like there’s some Stockholm Syndrome
going on.
Sophie is so tormented by Diana that she tries
to protect her at the expense of Martin.
The mom going psycho is why I wanted Rebecca
to move back in and help.
Martin bolts back to the sisters' place where
she’s trying to piece together what's going
on with chill bro in the back taking it all
in.
Nobody fills him in on the threat and they
send him off to shop for food at night, when
he’s completely unaware.
Bret’s been a clear accomplice to Martin
and Rebecca in trying to fight Diana, so he’s
undoubtedly a target too.
I’m going to be very surprised if this dude
comes back alive.
Rebecca shows Martin her findings in a dark
room with one weak-ass lamp nearby.
According to the records, Diana was found
locked up in a basement when she was 13, with
her father allegedly having killed himself
with blood writing on the wall saying, “She
is in my head.”
Since she had a very unstable mental condition,
she was taken to a psychiatric hospital where
Diana met Sophie.
It was said that Diana was evil, and could
get inside people’s heads and change them.
To be honest, that sounds like what asshole
kids would make up to bully a girl with a
horrifying skin condition.
I don’t think Diana’s mental instability
helped with the bullying either.
However, it did turn out to be true, because
a freaking ghost witch is trying to kill them.
Rebecca thinks that Diana got inside Sophie’s
head when Diana got torched, and her imprint
on Sophie survived.
She also thinks that Diana only shows up when
her mom is at her worst mentally.
Here’s where I'm stuck.
When Rebecca was younger, Diana had crossed
the dad out of her drawing, which to me indicates
that Diana murdered the husband.
But how, since she had to have appeared when
things were good at home?
This suggests that Diana can appear when Sophie
is feeling down for whatever reason, not just
when she is mentally crippled.
For example, if they had a dog and the dog
died, that would open Sophie up to where Diana
could show up and start swinging.
This makes Sophie incredibly volatile and
dangerous.
I think we all know what needs to be done.
Rebecca and Martin need to kill their mom.
Instead of doing what needs to be done, they
propose that the mom just needs to get her
mind strong again in order to break the connection.
That sounds warm and fuzzy, but the second
something bad happens to the mom, Diana is
going to come back with a vengeance,
You could heavily medicate or sedate the mom,
but turning Sophie into a zombie isn’t proven
to work, nor is it a dependable solution.
Martin and I are in agreement.
Improving the mom is not only futile, but
dangerous.
Diana will try to kill you the entire time
you're working with the mom to rehabilitate
her.
It’s much easier to just give her a different
kind of pill that makes the mom go sleepy
sleep forever.
They hear some knocking on the door, what’re
the chances that it’s not Bret.
What do you have to gain by checking it out,
absolutely nothing.
You know it’s Diana just trying to bait
you into an area where she can kill you.
Clever move, distracting Rebecca to snatch
Martin.
This could have been prevented if Martin had
some fresh ass light up kicks or a frameless
bed.
But yah, you can’t be standing next to dark
areas like that.
Realizing this has to be stopped asap, the
crew heads to Sophie's house to sort this
situation out.
I guess they chose the rehabilitation options
instead of killing her, at least for now.
While they are fighting about the moms ghost
friend tormenting them, unaware Bret’s over
there spinning his fork.
Poor dude’s just trying to get with Rebecca.
There’s a saying called don’t stick your..
knife in an outlet..
The mom storms off to have her sleepover with
Diana, and the crew makes a montage of their
piss-poor defenses.
Rebecca duct tapes the lights on, which is
probably more to prevent them or the mom from
accidentally turning a light off.
Martin hides a flashlight, which I don’t
understand at all, don’t you want easy access
to it?
Those flashlights have too narrow of a beam
anyways, but it’s better than nothing.
They open the curtains, which won’t help
until sunrise in 6-8 hours, but why not.
Bret grabs spares light bulbs, which is like
a tertiary support system where if you knock
a lamp over or a bulb goes out you can change
it, but you ain't gonna be swapping bulbs
when under attack.
Finally some freaking candles.
Overall, it’s a pretty weak defense.
3/10.
They had ample time to go to a store.
For first layer defense i’d buy a bunch
of flashlights, headlamps, flood lamps, batteries,
wind-up lights, every socket filled with sensor
night lights, and christmas lights to make
some 360 degree light armor.
I’d be inclined to try UV lights as well,
because of her initial vulnerability to sunlight.
Second layer defense would be those survival
candles and propane lanterns so if the electricity
goes you still have light.
Since it’s practically a full moon outside,
there’s plenty of light outside which can
add a third layer of defense.
They should pack some sammy’s and do some
backyard camping around a bonfire in addition
to the lights and candles.
This gives you three levels of redundancy.
Outside is also a good idea, because there
are less places for Diana to grab you from,
like under the bed.
Inside the house also introduces verticality,
where Diana can attack you from above.
It should go without saying that they should
stick together, butttt, no.
Martin goes off to sleep in his bedroom by
himself.
What the actual f.
He brought one candle, isolated himself, and
is making himself vulnerable to attack from
under the bed.
Hell, I'd be worried about Diana showing up
under the covers like the Onryo in The Grudge.
And he’s also making himself vulnerable
to the mom’s psycho shenanigans.
Sophie could walk into his room and blow his
candle out and boom, Martin’s toast.
Martin asks her to sleep in his room tonight.
Okay, how about you all just chill in the
living room where all your defenses are at.
Jesus.
While it doesn’t seem like Diana needs to
physically do anything to turn off lights,
it wouldn’t be a bad idea to leave a light
source illuminating the main electrical panel
to the house, which could shut off all power
at the throw of a switch.
Why, that’s all i’ll say.
Bret is one persevering SOB, and all for the
bottom drawer at her place.
He hasn’t had any actual experience with
Diana, only what he’s heard.
Still, all this stuff is pretty creepy, I
don’t think i’d want to sleep alone at
my place until I knew what was going on better.
Rebecca tries to make amends with her mom,
and as they part ways for the night, her mom
passes her a secret message before being pulled
back into the dark room by Diana.
“I need help.”
Who could have foresaw that your stay would
be perceived as an attack on Diana, and she
would retaliate by shutting all the lights
off as she’s done in the past to try to
kill you.
This is also why you all group up in one room.
Multiple people with intersecting fields of
flashlight beams, the candles work better
when combined in one room versus having only
a couple candles in each room, and now you
have to find each other in the dark since
you split up.
And still, nobody has filled Bret in on the
situation, so there’s a good chance he gets
killed.
Going to the basement does not compute, it’s
the darkest spot in the house.
And why not wake Martin up, she just left
him in a dark room alone.
When he wakes up hes gonna be freaked that
your gone and probably do something stupid.
Zero teamwork here guys.
Rebecca attempts to turn the power back on
at the main electrical panel, but at this
point turning it on is more dangerous than
just getting everyone and going outside with
your lights and candles.
Diana doesn’t seem to even need to physically
turn the power off anyways, even if she did,
she’s probably destroyed the panel making
it impossible to turn back on.
If you’re going to do it, at least position
the flashlight so it illuminates the room
behind you.
Martin inevitably wakes up and starts wandering
around with his cheap POS candle to find her.
He links up with Rebecca, and low and behold
the electrical panel is completely useless.
Diana shuts them in and locks the basement
door so she can deal with Bret.
Holy crap, Bret is a quick witted badass.
First with the phone, busting out of the home
into the moonlight, then using his car keys
to vanquish the ghost witch.
He then hops into the car and peels out.
I’m not sure why, that poses unnecessary
risks.
He could just keep the headlights on and stand
in front of it and in the moonlight while
calling 911.
Getting into the car is dangerous in the same
way the bed is, Diana could snatch your leg
while you're getting in.
You’d have to make sure the overhead lights
are on before you get in so you don't find
Diana chillin in your backseat.
You’d also have to worry that Diana could
appear under your car while you’re driving,
and pop your tires leaving you crashed in
a ditch.
Now's not the time to be a smartass Martin.
And stop huddling around the flashlight with
your back to the darkness.
Sophie tries to pop some pills in order to
soothe her mind and break the connection Diana
has to the world, but fails.
Instead of having a bonfire outside where
it’s safe, Rebecca and Martin are having
one in the basement.
Martin rummages through some old boxes and
luckily finds a giant battery powered UV light.
Rebecca takes it to go ‘take inventory’,
or whatever the hell that means.
She finds a room in the basement filled with
Diana’s creepy blood writings and mannequins
she plays torture with.
Inevitably, one of them turns out to be Diana.
But this time Diana doesn’t disappear in
the light.
The UV rays seem to prevent her from disappearing,
and injure her.
So her pre-heliotherapy weakness is still
in effect.
This whole time Diana appears to be corporeal,
which means she has a physical body that occupies
space.
She might not just be a shadow ghost.
It’s just that her physical presence can
only exist in the dark.
Meaning that you might be able to kill her
with something like a knife or bow.
Unsurpressed, close range firearms won’t
work because the muzzle flash will disappear
Diana before the bullet can hit.
It’s worth a shot, but it might not work.
Diana could be similar to the entity in Polaroid,
where they can physically interact with the
environment, but weapons are ineffective because
they kind of phase in and out of existence.
The UV light works in the same way taking
a picture of the entity in Polaroid did, it
captures their spirit in the physical world.
The UV light clearly damaged her.
You can finally go on the attack now.
Regroup with others, ensure their safety,
get UV lights and physical weapons, then corner
Diana with the lights, burning her and preventing
her from leaving, then start hacking and slashing.
Homeboy brought the fuzz, which really isn’t
the smartest idea.
They aren’t going to believe a thing you
say and their weapons are ineffective.
You’re condemning them to death.
It also risks Rebecca and Martin’s lives
by getting shot by the cops if there’s a
misunderstanding or they get caught in the
crossfire.
He should have gone to a nearby store and
gotten a shitload of flashlights and batteries
instead.
The police officers start getting dismantled
since their pistols muzzle flashes ruin the
effectiveness of their guns.
Good going Bret, you just fed lambs to the
slaughter.
Rebecca and Bret want to just leave the house
for now, but Martin refuses, insisting that
they help their mom.
I kind of get that, but it’s clear that
Diana won’t harm her, only continue to influence
and weaken her mind.
Sophie has been dealing with Diana for basically
ever.
I think she can hold out for 1 more day.
You know Diana’s weakness, be smart.
If you absolutely feel compelled to, at least
check the battery on the UV lamp and grab
some weapons.
Police cars usually are stocked with shotguns
or AR15’s.
Grab those, get the UV light on Diana, then
pump her full of lead.
A little heliotherapy and lead therapy.
I hate when villains just throw people around
instead of immediately killing them, but Sophie
might lose it and off herself if Diana kills
her daughter.
Sophie shows up and starts blasting.
Like the police officers, she realizes she
can’t kill Diana with the pistol.
In order to stop Diana, Sophie breaks the
mental tether she has to the world by shooting
herself in the head.
I
know this was my initial strategy, but that
was before Rebecca found out about the UV
light.
She should have told her mom that UV light
stops Diana, then scrambled 10 feet behind
her, grabbed the UV light, then had Sophie
gun Diana down.
I bet the police are going to have a lot of
questions now that any evidence of Diana is
gone.
The lights on the ambulance wanes and flickers.
Coincidence, or did Diana somehow survive.
Either way, I'm not sleeping with the lights
off, or going anywhere in the dark without
a flashlight for the rest of my life.
I’d check the records to make sure there
weren’t any stones unturned.
Maybe Diana was able to get inside other patients'
heads, or inside their heads and create another
connection that could manifest if they ever
became mentally weak in the future.
I’d invest in a suppressed pistol with a
UV light attachment in case Diana ever made
her way back into this world.
If I was Rebecca, I'd make sure to maintain
connection with Bret and Martin, so if they
ever got depressed or things started getting
weird again, everyone would be aware.
Well yah, that’s easy to say now that you
are older and a freaking ghost isn’t haunting
you, killing your parents, and turning your
mom into a depressed lunatic.
You had a legitimate reason to leave before
when you were a teenager and unable to deal
with that situation.
Lets recap how things could have gone down
differently, and see who would be alive or
dead.
Literally none of this would have happened
if the doctors weren’t insanely stupid and
negligent.
Heliotherapy for Xeroderma Pigmentosum is
preposterous.
It’s easy to say that Sophie should have
gotten help earlier on when Diana was manifesting,
but it’s not that easy, especially when
an evil spirit is attacking your mind.
Both the husband’s deaths were inevitable.
Bret shouldn’t have called the police, there
was no way they’d know what they were up
against.
If Bret had just stayed outside, or gone to
get more flashlights, the police wouldn’t
have died.
By the time Sophie confronted Diana with the
pistol, Rebecca knew Diana’s weakness and
had the UV light right next to her.
She should have told Sophie about Diana’s
weakness, shined the UV light on Diana, and
had Sophie shoot her.
It’s not clear that this would 100% work,
but it seems highly probable.
This would have prevented Sophie’s death.
I’d say we could have beat the Shadow Witch
from Lights Out with less lives lost.
Thanks for watching, and remember, you can't
cure Xeroderma Pigmentosum with intense UV
light.